- [Instructor] In the last three videos,
it was a very manual process
of removing images, building jars and recreating images.
Well, there's good news.
There are Maven plugins to automate these tasks.
We're going to use the Spotify plugin.
With the Spotify plugin, we no longer need
a Docker file in the project folder
and the configuration is all inside the pom.xml.
So, in the pom.xml at the bottom
is where we have our Spotify plugin.
And you see a lot of the similar items
that were in the Docker file
including the entry point,
the base start name,
that's where we start from Java 8,
explorecali is the image name
and we're going to have to establish the target folder
and we can actually leverage some existing environment names
that come from Maven which is like the final name
whenever we build the jar
and there's other tags here
such as the force tag
will force the image to be overwritten
if it exists already so we don't have to manually remove it.
If there's other settings and tags you can leverage here
such as you can make it part of your process
as you build the application,
then trigger the image to be created
or even push it up to Docker Hub
or another repository or you can even pull things
but this is just mimicking what we've already done
in our Docker file.
I've created a property called ec-profile
and that's a command line option
that I will pass in and so that that's actually substituted
in different places in this pom file.
Here's where I declare the property, ec-profile
and by default the setting is default
which means it would be a standalone application
running the H2 database,
the other valid value is MySQL
and it would use the MySQL profile
or Docker so that it would use the Docker profile.
So, let's go into the README
and I have the command lines
that we're going to execute.
First of all, I want to build the default image
for our package
and so, I'm going to copy this,
so within Maven it's going to build the jar
and then actually create the Docker image.
I've already cleared out any images
or containers that were left over from previous videos.
We just have to have the database container running
for these next examples,
so now I'm going to package up the application
and create an image.
So, now it has built an image called explorecali-default.
So, there's the explorecali-default image
and we're actually going to run a container with that image.
So, we're gonna run a container using
the explorecali-default image
and the container will be called ec-app-default.
And it will be exposing tomcat at port 8080.
The next one is if we want to use the
MySQL profile.
So, now that's building the image for MySQL.
And there's the MySQL image
and let's run that.
And this one we're going to run
against the explorecali-mysql image
and we're going to create the ec-app-mysql container.
A big difference here
is we're going to publish port 8181
as the application's port, so that's running
and now the final one is our Docker profile.
Now, remember, we have to have our migration scripts
off of a home directory to run this
whenever we get to the container command.
And now let's run this very long string.
So, this will run the explorecali-docker image
as a container called ec-app-docker.
We're publishing this on port 8282,
as before we're setting the volume
of where the migration scripts are
as well as all of the connection parameters
on our command line
and then we're gonna link into the ec-mysql database.
There's our three Docker images.
And our containers
and we see the mapping of the ports.
82, 8082,
8181 and 8080,
so let's exercise the APIs,
let's get the tours from port 8080.
And there they are and that's fetching it
from the H2 Database.
This is on port 8181 for the MySQL profile.
And there's the data there
and now lastly, the Docker profile for 8282.